In the last lecture, we had a look at string interpolation which is a great tool for outputting data
in a template,
now I want to have a look at property binding.
Now one important information by the way,
there are a lot of times where you can either use property binding or string interpolation
and I will show what I mean in a second.
Let's go to our servers component where we manage all the servers and I want to allow the user to add
new servers, at least soon
I want to allow that.
So we will need a button where I say add server on it
and I will just add some CSS classes, btn and btn-primary to make this part look nice,
this is all using normal bootstrap CSS classes though, nothing to do with Angular and to reflect this
change in my servers component here,
I also want to comment out the inline template and point to the external template again,
so templateUrl should point to my servers.component.html file, like this.
So now with this, if I save this, we see that button here. Right now, it doesn't make any sense that I'm able
to click this button because it doesn't do anything, we haven't learned to react to a button click yet.
So I will add a new property in my TypeScript code here which I'll name allowNewServer and set it
to false.
So now this is also another property holding a boolean value,
so true or false, in this case false because I don't want to allow the user to create a new server and
you could again imagine that this is somehow derived dynamically,
we will soon work with some dynamic data. So in the HTML file here, I now want to disable the button
and as you probably know, there is a disabled attribute you can add, like this. If we now save this, the button
is disabled, I can't click it.
That's nice but that's hardcoded into HTML,
now maybe this allowNewServer code here changes
however, maybe it's not set to this all the time.
So then, we wouldn't be able to react to this
and I can actually demonstrate this by for now in the constructor which is simply a method executed
at the point of time this component is created by Angular, by there calling setTimeout,
a normal Javascript function
and here I define after which period of time or after how many milliseconds something should happen,
so after 2000 milliseconds which are two seconds, I want to execute a function
and here I'm using an ES6 arrow function.
This syntax might look strange,
it's almost the same as function like this, with some difference when it comes to handling the this keyword.
But in the end, here you passed the arguments and here you have the function body, more importantly in
here,
I can set allowNewServer and now this would not work in the other syntax because this would then
be referring to something else, can set it to true.
So after two seconds, this will be switched to true and since we hardcoded this, of course this doesn't affect
our button here at all, it stays disabled.
So I want to bind it to allowNewServer. So now to make this disabled functionality dynamic, we can
bind to it by enclosing it in square brackets. Square brackets indicate to Angular that we're using
property binding, that we want to dynamically bind some property and disable the HTML attribute, in the
end,
in normal HTML, only sets a specific property on the underlying DOM element.
You might note that each HTML element you use is parsed by the browser and kind of translated into
an element on the document object model,
this is totally unrelated to Angular
and therefore we have an element in this DOM and this element has a couple of properties.
A lot of these can't even be set through attributes on the HTML element.
Well one of the properties is the disabled property and you can set it through the disabled attribute
but here we're not using the disabled attribute anymore, with the square brackets, we are directly binding
to this native disabled property
this HTML element has.
So now, we can set this equal to
and now between the quotation marks here, an expression which for this property resolves to a boolean
but for other properties, another type might be required because again, you can bind to a lot of properties,
basically to all the HTML element properties.
We'll soon learn that there are also other properties you can bind to.
So for now I can simply pass allowNewServer here,
my property name because this will resolve to true or false,
exactly the value the disabled property needs because it has to decide whether it should be disabled or
not.
So now with that, if we reverse this,
so by adding an exclamation mark, we made sure that this is only disabled if this is false,
so if allowNewServer is not true,
otherwise you would do exactly the opposite.
So now with the exclamation mark, if we go back to the app, you see it's disabled
but after two seconds, let me reload this,
it becomes enabled because now we're binding to this disabled property, this native element property,
we're binding this to our own TypeScript property here and the convenient thing is and this is what Angular is
all about, that this will update dynamically.
So once allowNewServer changes, this is changed in the DOM, so now the button gets enabled.
One of the main reasons why you use Angular,
it makes it very easy for you to interact with your DOM, to change something there at runtime like we
do here.
That is property binding in place,
now as I mentioned besides binding to HTML element properties like we do here, you can also bind to other
properties, for example of directives, something we haven't learned about yet
and your own component, something I will also show you later.
So this is property binding.
Before moving on the other two forms of data binding,
let's find out where you could actually use string interpolation instead of property binding.